several countries are demanding answers
from Israel after an air strike killed
seven Aid workers in Gaza the food
charity World Central Kitchen says one
of its convoys was hit after leaving a
warehouse it says citizens from several
countries were killed Israel has
promised an independent investigation as
it continues its operation in Gaza in
response to the Hamas Terror attacks a
warning that some viewers may find the
images in our next report
distressing another day in Gaza another
set of
bodies seven members of the food Aid
charity World Central Kitchen were
killed in an apparent Israeli attack on
an aid
Convoy footage taken after the attack
shows two burnt out armored vehicles
featuring the ngo's logo as well as a
softskin
vehicle in a statement published online
World Central Kitchen CEO Erin Gore said
she was heartbroken adding that using
food as a weapon of war was
unforgivable the NGO says the vehicles
were traveling through a deconflict Zone
and had coordinated their movements
beforehand with the
authorities among those killed was
44-year-old zie francom from Melbourne
seen on the left here at a food tent in
Gaza last month Australia's prime
minister Anthony albanesi described her
death as tragic and reiterated his call
for a sustainable
ceasefire this is someone who is
volunteering overseas to provide Aid
through this charity for people who are
suffering uh tremendous deprivation in
Gaza and uh this is just uh completely
uh
unacceptable uh we want full
accountability for this because this is
a tragedy that should never have
occurred the Israeli Army said it would
conduct a review of what happened as a
professional military commit to
international law we are committed to
examining our operations thoroughly and
transparently we will be opening a probe
to examine this serious incident further
this will help us reduce the risk of
such an event from occurring again World
Central Kitchen has announced it's
pausing its operations in the region
until further
notice for more let's speak now to sah
Ali the global media manager for Save
the Children International who is
joining us today from Rafa in Gaza first
of all thank you so much for taking the
time to speak with us on what I'm sure
is a very busy time I'd like to begin
with your reaction to what has happened
here we've heard the CEO of world
Central Kitchen calling this an attack
on all humanitarian organizations uh who
do show up in dire situations do you
feel the
same I think everybody here in Rafa in
vaza today is heartbroken the news is
absolutely devastating and I think it
speaks to the gravity of the situation
on the ground we know that humanitarian
Aid workers health workers law
enforcement protecting humanitarian
operations have been attacked by Israeli
air strikes and this needs to stop we
need all parties to adhere to
International humanitarian law we know
that humanitarian Aid workers should
never be targeted and the situation on
the ground here in Gaza is continuing to
deteriorate Israel has stopped short of
claiming responsibility for this attack
but they have promised an independent
investigation I'm wondering what what
this means for your organizations plans
to continue providing Aid in Gaza does
it does it give you pause are you
rethinking
security well the news has just broken
of course and I think everybody now is
looking at what we can really achieve I
think the difficulty is we know how
great the need is right now just today
we were in a hospital we've got
pediatric doctors and nurses here we saw
I saw a six-year-old boy who's missing
an arm we know that more than a thousand
children since the beginning of this war
have lost either one or both of their
limbs the need is so great children are
already dying of malnutrition and
dehydration disease is rampant in Gaza
and it's really difficult for
humanitarian Aid workers because we're
here to do our job and our job is
becoming increasingly harder and this is
something that should never happen and
as you were working uh with these
children in just dire circumstances does
save the children then also get
reassurances from Israel about its
ability to operate safely and provide
this kind of
assistance we have security mechanisms
in place of course uh the situation is
fluid and you know I can't comment on
that right now but what I can say is
that we we know that right now nowhere
is safe in Gaza humanitarian Aid workers
journalists health workers have been
attacked we lost one of our colleagues
here in December um and we we just hope
more than anything that all parties in
this conflict can adhere to
International humanitarian law to ensure
the protection but we know right now
that the only thing really that will
protect civilians families and children
here in Gaza is a definitive ceasefire
we need a ceasefire as quickly as
possible it's been six months of this
brutal war and children here in Gaza
cannot wait any longer we need to see
action from the International Community
I'd like to ask you a little bit more
about what you've seen in your work uh
in the field there yesterday the the
destruction of alifa Hospital became
clear after Israel's withdrawal uh what
what does the lack of a facility like
that mean for children's access to
Healthcare in
Gaza children's Act access to healthcare
has been decimated we've seen attacks on
hospitals and we know that the entire
population is facing a famine and of
course that's a technical classification
but we're already seeing children dying
as a result of malnutrition and
dehydration on the streets here there's
complete overcrowding you know Rafa was
home to around
275,000 people before the War Began and
now an estimated 1.5 million people are
cramped in this tiny patch of land and
overwhelmingly there are children
everywhere I've seen children on the
streets with no shoes bloody feet uh
covered in rashes and you know we met
one family a mother who'd lost a child
in an air strike and she's now
Sheltering in a tent with 30 other
people and she is sharing a bathroom
with 200 other people the conditions are
dire here in Rafa and they will continue
to get worse until a ceasefire is agreed
to because we know the B BS are
continuing to drop and if the bombs
don't kill the children we know that
disease dehydration and malnutrition
will thank you so much for joining us on
DW news that is sah Ali with save the
children
[Applause]
International I asked DW correspondent
Rebecca rers in Jerusalem to tell us
more about the
incident well Terry it's been confirmed
that this team of workers as you
mentioned had been working in this
Warehouse they had been been unloading
about 100 tons of Aid that had just
arrived on a shipment from through the
maritime corridor from Cyprus uh the
world Central Kitchen saying that they
were at their near their warehouse in De
albala as you mentioned in central Gaza
and that they had been traveling in a
convoy um two of the vehicles in that
Convoy were armored one was what's known
as a soft skin a regular vehicle and
that they were uh marked very clearly
with the world Central Kitchen logo on
the roof pictures that we're in fact
seeing are show just where the impact
hole went right through that signage on
on the roof of one of those vehicles um
so they were clearly marked now the the
world Central Kitchen has released a
very strong statement in in the
aftermath of this incident saying this
is not only an attack against World
Central Kitchen this is an attack on
humanitarian organizations showing up in
the most dire of situations where food
is being used as a weapon of War very
strong words there they have since
supended their operations in the area
and till they take stock and and and
figure out what their next move is now
as you mentioned the IDF uh has released
a statement this is fairly standard in
the aftermath of these events the
statement says that it's conducting a
thorough review at the highest levels it
didn't deny nor confirm and it hasn't
yet we are expecting uh to to
potentially get further statements
throughout the day from the Israeli
military though they did confirm that
they had been working closely with the
world Central Kitchen um as I said now
World Central Kitchen has decided to
suspend its operations and they were
expecting a further shipment of Aid
through that Maritime Corridor that has
reportedly also been halted so you say
the world Central Kitchen has suspended
its operations in Gaza other Aid
organizations of course are watching
this closely as well could this end up
having an impact on the provision of
humanitarian Aid in Gaza at such a
desperate
time I think most certainly Terry I mean
if this is confirmed to have been an
Israeli strike I think it points to a
real problem with the process of what's
known as deconfliction now that is the
process where organizations individuals
and people trying to distribute a
discuss with the military uh and are
assured their safe passage basically now
NOS have been saying for some time that
there has been a huge problem with this
process in fact that it's completely
broken and we know that this isn't the
first attack that has uh that that you
know that has killed for uh killed NGO
workers the unra the organization the UN
organization task with assisting
Palestinian refugees certainly one of
the biggest operating in Gaza at the
moment says that more than 170 of its
employees have been killed uh throughout
these operations so certainly when we're
looking when the US is looking at
particularly in upping the amount of Aid
that may come through that Maritime uh
border trying to build a jetty a
temporary Jetty to allow for more Aid to
come in Via sea certainly wondering who
will Who will be willing uh to
distribute that Aid I if they fear if
organizations fear that they will be
putting their NGO workers at huge risk
uh of being uh you know targeted or
caught up in these in these air strikes
Rebecca thank you very much that was our
correspondent Rebecca ritters in
Jerusalem